Let's start developing pickups. In this tutorial, we will create all the necessary classes.
Let's start with the main base class. We will inherit from the actor. We name the class STUBasePickup.
Create a new directory called pickups.
Click Create Class. If the project doesn't compile, add a new directory to PublicIncludePaths in build.
We inherit from the base pickup class.
We name the first class STUAmmoPickup. He will be in charge of the ammunition of the weapon.
We create the second class. We call it STUHealthPickup. This class will be responsible for the life of the character.
Let's create a collision component in the base class. This will be a spherical collision.
We added this component when working with projectile. In C ++ logic, we will only have a collision.
We will customize the visual representation of the pickup in blueprints.
It can be either a static mesh or a particle system, or both. Therefore, it makes no sense to add
specific presentation components in C ++. Add forward declarations for the sphere component.
In C ++, we include the header file.
Let's define a log category for pickup.
Go to the projectile class, copy the creation of the collision component.
Insert the constructor into BasePickup. Let's change some settings: set the radius of the sphere to 50 units, and set the collision response to ECR_Overlap.
In projectile, we subscribed to the hit event, and our pickup will react to overlap.
It was possible to use a collision delegate, as we did in the projectile case,
but there is also another way. We can override a special actor function, which is called
when an overlap event has occurred with any component of the actor, that is, in fact, one actor is overlapped by another.
If we go into the actor class and enter NotifyActorBeginOverlap,
then we can find a virtual function that will be called if the actors overlap.
Let's override it in our ASTUBasePickup class.
Add override.
We create the body of the function.
The first thing we will do is add a call to the base function through the Super keyword,
so as not to lose the logic of the parent function, and to begin with, we just print a message to the console.
That is, in fact, when players cross a collision, we will give the player the quantitative
characteristics of this pickup, and the pickup itself can be deleted. Call the Destroy function.
In order not to waste time on design, I have prepared material that we will use for pickup.
The base material is called BaseGlow. It generally matches the normal color material.
The only difference is that this material has an additional parameter, which is included in the emissive color.
Emissive color is responsible for the glow of the material. I created a MaterialInstance
based on the given base material. The first material we have will glow with a blue light. Also, if we
increase the value of the glow parameter, the glow is more intense. The second similar material will
glow green. I also added two additional meshes: the health mesh is for the
health pickup, and the rockets mesh will be used for the weapon pickup. I created these meshes in UE
using the simplest geometry. We have already done the floor in this way.
On the left, in the geometry category, we can select the Box element, drag it onto the stage.
And then in the details panel, you can adjust the size of the cube and, for example, let's change the value at the X coordinate - set it to 600.
Copy this geometry, rotate the box 90 degrees along the Y axis.
This way we get a cross. And, in order to turn this geometry into a static mesh,
you need to select these boxes and click on the create static mesh button in the details menu. A static mesh is created
based on this geometry and we can already use it directly in blueprints.
I made the ammo mesh in a similar way
using cylindrical and spherical geometries. Let's create blueprint classes.
We inherit from our C ++ versions.
Create a blueprint class for the ammo pickup.
And create a blueprint class for the health pickup. We start with a health pickup. Add a new component to the blueprint - the static mesh component.
And in the details panel, select a mesh for it - our cross.
The dimensions are approximately the same, that is, the cross is inside the sphere.
You can play a little with the scale - set the values ​​to 1.2.
Go to the blueprint class AmmoPickup. Add a static mesh component.
And set the rocket mesh in the details panel. You can move the mesh up along the Z axis.
We return to the main window. We remove our giant cross.
We take our pickups onto the stage.
We start the game.
We take pickup lives, we take pickup weapons.
If you open the log, you can see our messages that the pickup was taken.